Welcome everyone to
the final lesson of module two.
We will finish
this week on mapping by
looking at another
essential map type,
the High Definition Road Map.
In this video, we will define
a High-Definition Road Map.
We will then see how
this map can effectively be
stored by looking at a datatype
called the lanelet Map.
We will then take a look at
two main elements
of the lanelet map;
the lanelets and
the intersection elements,
and discuss how
they are connected.
Each of the elements
will then be broken
down into its components,
so we can explore the full extent
of this mapping data structure.
Next, we look at
the different operations that
can be performed on
lanelet elements.
Finally, we will explore
different methods
of recording and
creating lanelet maps.
A High-Definition Road Map
is similar to
traditional paper-based maps
or online maps.
However, the information
contained within
the High Definition map or
HD map is significantly
more detailed.
While a traditional map stores
the approximate
locations of roads,
the High Definition
Road Maps stores
the precise road
locations including
all lanes down to
a few centimeters accuracy.
Along with this,
the High Definition
Road Maps stores all of
the locations of road signs and
signals which might effect
the autonomous vehicle.
Due to the detailed and
interconnected nature
of the data,
an effective method
is required to
store all information
contained within the map.
The lanelet concept
was proposed in
a 2014 publication entitled,
Lanelets: Efficient
Map Representation
for Autonomous Driving
by Philip Bender,
Julius Ziegler, and
Christoph Stiller.
Due to this method's
effectiveness
in storage and communication
of the complex set of information
needed for HD mapping,
it is widely used.
We'll look at this framework
for the rest of the course,
and they will play a key role in
our behavior planning
methods in particular.
The lanelet map has
two main components,
which we will discuss in
greater detail in this lesson.
A lanelet element which
stores all information
connected to
a small longitudinal segment of
a lane on a road
which it represents.
An intersection element
which stores
all lanelet elements
which are part of
a single intersection for
simple retrieval during
motion planning tasks.
This will be followed
by an explanation of
the connectivity between
all the different
lanelet elements.
A lanelet elements has
several sets of information that
stores about the segment of
road that it represents.
First, a lanelet stores
the left and right boundaries
of the given lane.
Second, a lanelet stores
any regulatory elements
that might be
present at the end of
the lanelet element,
such as a stop sign line
or a static sign line.
Note that we only
store a line for
any regulatory element as
this is the point that
the autonomous vehicle treats as
the active location for
that regulatory element.
Third, a lanelet stores
all regulatory attributes that
might affect that
segment of the road,
such as the speed limit.
Fourth, a lanelet
stores the connectivity
of itself to other lanelet
elements around it.
This allows for easy traversal
and calculations
through the graph created by
the set of lanelets in an HD map.
Each lanelet ends as
a regulatory element
or a change to a regulatory
attribute is encountered.
This means that a
lanelet element can be as short
as only a few meters in
the case of a lanelet,
which is part of an intersection,
or can be hundreds of meters
long for a highway road segment.
Boundaries of the lanelet are
represented as the edges
of the lanelet.
These boundaries capture
either marked lane boundaries
or curves which inhibit driving.
Lane boundaries are
stored as a set of
points creating
a continuous polygonal line.
Each point stores its x,
y, and z GPS coordinates.
The distance between points can
be as fine as a few centimeters,
or as course as a few meters
depending on the smoothness
of the polyline in question.
Using this polygonal
line structure,
many useful operations
can be performed
to gather data for the task
of motion planning.
The ordering of
the points defines
the direction of travel and
heading for the lanelet.
The road curvature of any part of
the lanelet can be precomputed
from that lanelet as well.
A center line between
the two boundaries
can be interpolated,
which can be used as
the desired path of
travel for the autonomous
vehicle in that lane.
There are two types of
lanelet regulations:
Regulation Elements,
which come at the end
of the lanelet,
and regulation attributes, which
affect the entirety
of the lanelet.
Regulatory elements are
represented as lines
which are defined by a set
of co-linear points.
Regulation elements
usually require
an action or decision to be made,
such as in the case
of a traffic light,
or the decision to
proceed must be
based on the current state
of that traffic light.
Regulatory attributes persist for
the entirety of the lanelet.
Examples include speed limits,
or whether this lanelet crosses
another lanelet as in
an intersection or merge.
Each lanelet has
four possible connections:
Lanelets directly to the left,
lanelets directly to
the right, lanelet preceding it,
and lanelet following it.
The entire lanelet structure is
connected in a directed graph,
which is the base structure
of the HD map.
It should be noted there could be
more than one lanelet
preceding the current lanelet,
or more than one following
lanelet as in the case
of an intersection.
To better understand
this concept,
let's take a look at
a simple example using
this particular set of
lanelets for a
three-way intersection.
As you can see, some
of the lanelets are
numbered and represented
as nodes on the graph,
which therefore
represent only a portion
of the complete lanelet graph
with this intersection.
The nodes or vertices are
labeled one through five
on the lane that figure,
and form the vertices
of the lanelet graph.
All edges of this graph are
directed and are
labeled to denote
the relationship between
the two vertices
the edge connects.
An edge marked as zero
represents the transition
to the next lanelet.
A one indicates a connection
to the left lanelet.
An edge labeled two represents
a connection to
the right lanelet,
and a three represents
previously lanelets.
The lanelet element, which is
represented by the number
one in this picture,
has in fact two
possible next elements.
Lanelet element five and
lanelet element two are
two possible next
lanelets that can be
driven on after
leaving lanelet one,
as they are two ways
through this intersection.
Similarly, lanelet
element four is
connected to lanelet
one with a one edge,
as lanelet four is to
the left of lanelet one.
The intersection
elements simply holds
a pointer to
all regulatory elements,
which make up the
intersection of interest.
All lanelet elements
which are part of
an intersection also point to
this intersection element.
This structure acts much
like a container and
simplifies look-ups throughout
the lanelet structure
when assigning behaviors.
A big advantage of
the lanelet data structure
is that it makes parts of
the motion planning process
simpler and more
computationally efficient.
The process of
path planning through
complex multi-lane road networks,
which require
multiple link changes
well in advance of turning,
are made possible with
this data structure as
each lanelet is treated
as a separate vertex.
Localizing dynamic objects to
a known map improves
path predictions,
as we shall see in module four.
This type of localization
ability also improves
interactions with
dynamic objects by
providing an easy method to plan
the behavior of an autonomous car
through a busy intersection,
as we'll see in module five.
The creation of such a map can
be done in three ways: The
first is creating the map
offline by driving
the road network several
times and collecting information,
and then fusing both
segmentation as well as
localization
information to improve
the accuracy of the map.
In this method,
hand corrections are also
possible if any mistakes are
noted from the algorithms.
The second method is to
create a lanelet map
online while driving a road
network for the first time.
With the use of
existing traditional maps and
heavily relying on segmentation
and object detection,
it is possible to
create the map as
the autonomous vehicle drives
through the road network
for the first time.
This method is highly
computationally
expensive both in terms of
the motion planning task,
as well as the perception tasks.
Not to mention highly
error-prone and thus
is rarely deployed.
The third approach for
creating HD maps is to create
the maps offline and then
update them online if
changes are detected.
One such change might be
a new construction zone
resulting in a new
regulatory element,
and this is something
that could not have
been predicted
during map creation.
In fact, all of these methods use
the same underlying
calculations to
identify lanelet elements,
attributes, and intersections.
In practice, offline
map construction with
live confirmation and updating
captures the best of both worlds,
ensuring high precision on
static elements that do
not change frequently,
and yet still capturing
the novelty in
the environment and allowing
the vehicle to adapt to it.
There is much more
detail that can be
included in this discussion
about HD mapping.
So we've added some links to
the supplemental materials if
you'd like to dive in deeper.
Congratulations, you've made it
to the end of this module.
In this module, you've
learned all about
the creation of two types
of environment maps,
which are required
for motion planning.
We started by looking
at the construction of
occupancy grid maps from
rider data for self-driving cars.
It's Bayesian log-odds
update steps,
and all the required
filtering needed to
create meaningful maps or
static objects to be avoided.
We also looked at
High Definition Road Maps
using the lanelet model.
We discussed the various
components which make up
these maps and how they can be
used for fundamental motion
planning operations.
In the next module,
we will look into
the mission planning problem,
the first step in
the task of developing
safe and effective trajectories
for self-driving cars.
See you then.